# OS History and Examples

## General OS Design

### THE

### Multics

### UNIX

It is illustrative to understand the evolution of I/O and concurrency in UNIX systems.

*Blocking I/O*

*Threading*

*Asynchronous or non-blocking I/O*

*`select`/`poll`*

*`epoll`/`kqueue`*

*uioring*

### Plan 9

### Linux

## Microkernels

### RC400

### Mach

### Minix (and QNX)

### L4

### Composite

### Plan 9 v2

### Linux Service Infrastructure

`inetd`
`systemd`

## Exokernels and Unikernels

### Specialized Systems

[If we don't need to support multiple users, what can we do?](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/800215.806575)

### Exokernel

### MirageOS

### Unikraft

### [Demikernel](https://irenezhang.net/papers/demikernel-sosp21.pdf)

### Rumpkernel

### Drawbridge and Windows

## OSes that Use Software-based Protection

### SPIN

### JavaOS

### Berkeley Packet Filter (BPF)

`eBPF`

### Sledge and Webassembly

## Virtual Machines and Containers

### Xen

### Nova

### Zones

### Docker and Container APIs

## Parallel OSes

### Linux: Fine-grained locking and Read-Copy-Update (RCU)

- RadixVM & the other MIT/Linux works
- RLU

### Commuter and the Scalability Commutivity Rule

### Tornado

### Corey

### Barrelfish

### Redshift

### Composite

## Secure OSes: Capability-based Systems

### Hydra

*Resources (list from CS 523, '19 at UIUC by Tianyin Xu):*

- W. Wulf, E. Cohen, W. Corwin, A. Jones, R. Levin, C. Pierson, and F. Pollack, [HYDRA: The Kernel of a Multiprocessor Operating System](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=364017), Communications of the ACM, Vol. 17, No. 6, June 1974, pp. 337-345.

- H. M. Levy, [Chapter 8: The Hydra System](https://homes.cs.washington.edu/~levy/capabook/Chapter6.pdf), Capability-Based Computer Systems, Digital Press, 1984.

- W. Wulf and C. G. Bell, [C.mmp: a multi-mini-processor](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1480098), In Proceedings of AFIPS Fall Joint Computing Conference, December 1972.

### Eros

### L4

### Composite

## Secure OSes: Constraining Information Flow

### Asbestos and HiStar

### Nexus
